[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/AnalogDevices/OpenSource/_apis/build/status/analogdevicesinc.m1k-fw?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/AnalogDevices/OpenSource/_build/latest?definitionId=21&branchName=master)

This is the firmware for the microcontroller on the M1K.

Unless you are an advanced user, you should probably start at the [Table of
Contents](https://wiki.analog.com/university/tools/m1k).

### Build instructions:

With `arm-none-eabi-gcc` version 4.7 or later installed, run the following
commands:

* `git clone https://github.com/analogdevicesinc/m1k-fw.git`
* `sudo make flash` - this command will build the firmware image and attempt to
  load it onto any attached SAM3U devices with either SAMBA or M1K vendor IDs.

`make flash` also requires Python 2.7 or later and PyUSB for the script to load
the firmware on the target device.

Unplug and replug the attached device to try out the new firmware.

### Updating on Windows

All SAM parts have a slightly broken boot ROM which presents a serial interface
that is capable of flashing a firmware image to the device in its raw state.

Due to the brokenness inherent in the bootloader, the recommended tool for
updating the firmware is [the Python script in this
repository](./scripts/sam-ba.py) which treats the USB device implementing the
CDC-ACM USB device class as a raw vendor device and directly interacts without
using the serial interface and triggering bugs. This is advantageous due to
finer grained control over packet boundaries - if SAM-BA receives commands
split across subsequent USB packets, an error condition will arise.
Unfortunately, Windows does not offer the ability for userspace programs to
detatch kernel drivers, so the device must be interacted with as a serial
device.

[BOSSA](http://www.shumatech.com/web/products/bossa) is a third-party open-source
cross-platform tool which implements the required serial protocol and works
around the afforementioned bugs. Install the latest version from
[SourceForge](http://sourceforge.net/projects/b-o-s-s-a/files/) and follow the
instructions [in the
documentation](http://www.shumatech.com/web/products/bossa) to flash the
m1000.bin file included in this repository.

Before you use BOSSA, you must first manually trigger the bootloader on the
ADALM1000. This can be done by shorting out the small jumper on the "top" of
the board, by the labels for the PIO connector. The device should disconnect
from USB and re-enumerate as a SAMBA bootloader device / USB modem. For more
information, see [this detailed image](http://imgur.com/tOdcnSb) calling out
the bootloader jumper.

### Flashing manually via the command line

There are two options for flashing from the command line. The first is to use
the previously mentioned sam-ba.py script in this repository or use the bossac
application.

Both require the device to be in programming mode in which the LED should be
off. To forcibly enable the mode, short the pads on top of the board as seen in
[this image](https://wiki.analog.com/_media/university/tools/m1k-fw-erase.jpg).

#### Using the python script

The script's dependencies are [pyusb](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyusb) and
[bitstring](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/bitstring). Either python-2.7 or
python-3.3 and up should work.

From the root directory of the repository run the script using the following:

	python scripts/sam-ba.py /path/to/firmware/file

If no firmware file path is specified the script currently tries to use the
m1000.bin file in the root directory of the repository.

#### Using bossac

First the bossac application must be built or downloaded. For Windows and OS X
the following binaries are available.

* [OSX](http://bossaosx.s3-website-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/bossac)
* [Win32](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/analogdevicesinc/bossa/build/artifacts)

For Linux, it's easy to build your own via:

	git clone https://github.com/analogdevicesinc/BOSSA.git
	cd BOSSA
	make bin/bossac
	cd bin

Then using the bossac application, run something similar to following command
(altering where necessary for OS differences):

	./bossac -e -w -v -b /path/to/firmware/file
